doc/getting-started/dependencies-and-tooling.rst, before:

Dependencies and tooling
========================

The JoliMediaBundle has a few dependencies and uses some tools to ensure the quality of the code and the media processing. Unlike other Symfony bundles related to media management (for example ``LiipImagineBundle``), it does not require any external library to process media, and does not depend on any specific image processing library. Instead, it directly wraps common image processing software such as:

- `cwebp <https://developers.google.com/speed/webp/docs/cwebp>`_
- `exiftool <https://exiftool.org/>`_
- `gifsicle <https://www.lcdf.org/gifsicle/>`_
- `Imagine <https://github.com/php-imagine/Imagine>`_
- `jpegoptim <https://github.com/tjko/jpegoptim>`_
- `mozjpeg <https://github.com/mozilla/mozjpeg>`_
- `oxipng <https://github.com/shssoichiro/oxipng>`_
- `pngquant <https://pngquant.org/>`_

These tools are all available on most systems and can be installed using the package manager of your choice (``apt``, ``brew``, etc.).

A typical Debian-based system can install the required dependencies using the following commands:

.. code-block:: bash

    sudo apt install \
        exiftran \
        file \
        gifsicle \
        imagemagick \
        jpegoptim \
        libimage-exiftool-perl \
        libmagickcore-dev \
        pngquant

Some tools are not available in the default repositories, so you will need to install them manually. The following commands will install all such tools:

.. code-block:: bash

    cd /tmp \
        && wget -O libwebp-1.6.0-linux-x86-64.tar.gz https://storage.googleapis.com/downloads.webmproject.org/releases/webp/libwebp-1.6.0-linux-x86-64.tar.gz \
        && tar xzvf libwebp-1.6.0-linux-x86-64.tar.gz \
        && cp libwebp-1.6.0-linux-x86-64/bin/cwebp /usr/local/bin/cwebp \
        && cp libwebp-1.6.0-linux-x86-64/bin/gif2webp /usr/local/bin/gif2webp

    cd /tmp \
        && wget -O mozjpeg.tar.gz https://github.com/mozilla/mozjpeg/archive/refs/tags/v4.1.1.tar.gz \
        && tar xzvf mozjpeg.tar.gz \
        && cd /tmp/mozjpeg-4.1.1 \
        && cmake -G"Unix Makefiles" \
        && make \
        && make install

    cd /tmp \
        && wget -O oxipng-9.1.5-x86_64-unknown-linux-musl.tar.gz https://github.com/shssoichiro/oxipng/releases/download/v9.1.5/oxipng-9.1.5-x86_64-unknown-linux-musl.tar.gz \
        && tar xzvf oxipng-9.1.5-x86_64-unknown-linux-musl.tar.gz \
        && cp oxipng-9.1.5-x86_64-unknown-linux-musl/oxipng /usr/local/bin/oxipng

Once the dependencies are installed, make sure to `configure the bundle <../getting-started/configuration.rst#processors-configuration>`_ to use them.

Commit message:

documentation improvements and additions about the HEIF and AVIF formats support

doc/getting-started/dependencies-and-tooling.rst, after:

Dependencies and tooling
========================

The JoliMediaBundle has a few dependencies and uses some tools to ensure the quality of the code and the media processing. Unlike other Symfony bundles related to media management (for example ``LiipImagineBundle``), it does not require any external library to process media, and does not depend on any specific image processing library. Instead, it directly wraps common image processing software such as:

- `cwebp <https://developers.google.com/speed/webp/docs/cwebp>`_
- `exiftool <https://exiftool.org/>`_
- `gifsicle <https://www.lcdf.org/gifsicle/>`_
- `Imagine <https://github.com/php-imagine/Imagine>`_
- `jpegoptim <https://github.com/tjko/jpegoptim>`_
- `mozjpeg <https://github.com/mozilla/mozjpeg>`_
- `oxipng <https://github.com/shssoichiro/oxipng>`_
- `pngquant <https://pngquant.org/>`_

These tools are all available on most systems and can be installed using the package manager of your choice (``apt``, ``brew``, etc.).

A typical Debian-based system can install the required dependencies using the following commands:

.. code-block:: bash

    sudo apt install \
        exiftran \
        file \
        gifsicle \
        imagemagick \
        jpegoptim \
        libheif1 \
        libheif-plugins-all \
        libimage-exiftool-perl \
        libmagickcore-dev \
        pngquant

.. note::

    The ``libheif1`` and ``libheif-plugins-all`` packages are required to handle AVIF and HEIF images with ImageMagick. Depending on your system, the versions provided by the package manager might be outdated and not (fully) support these formats. In this case, you will need to compile ImageMagick from source with HEIF support.

Some tools are not available in the default repositories, so you will need to install them manually. The following commands will install all such tools:

.. code-block:: bash

    cd /tmp \
        && wget -O libwebp-1.6.0-linux-x86-64.tar.gz https://storage.googleapis.com/downloads.webmproject.org/releases/webp/libwebp-1.6.0-linux-x86-64.tar.gz \
        && tar xzvf libwebp-1.6.0-linux-x86-64.tar.gz \
        && cp libwebp-1.6.0-linux-x86-64/bin/cwebp /usr/local/bin/cwebp \
        && cp libwebp-1.6.0-linux-x86-64/bin/gif2webp /usr/local/bin/gif2webp

    cd /tmp \
        && wget -O mozjpeg.tar.gz https://github.com/mozilla/mozjpeg/archive/refs/tags/v4.1.1.tar.gz \
        && tar xzvf mozjpeg.tar.gz \
        && cd /tmp/mozjpeg-4.1.1 \
        && cmake -G"Unix Makefiles" \
        && make \
        && make install

    cd /tmp \
        && wget -O oxipng-9.1.5-x86_64-unknown-linux-musl.tar.gz https://github.com/shssoichiro/oxipng/releases/download/v9.1.5/oxipng-9.1.5-x86_64-unknown-linux-musl.tar.gz \
        && tar xzvf oxipng-9.1.5-x86_64-unknown-linux-musl.tar.gz \
        && cp oxipng-9.1.5-x86_64-unknown-linux-musl/oxipng /usr/local/bin/oxipng

Once the dependencies are installed, make sure to `configure the bundle <../getting-started/configuration.rst#processors-configuration>`_ to use them.
